Ops procedures - document enable protocol trace for router/broker (#4423)
EnMasseProject/enmasse: documentation/modules/proc-enable-protocol-trace-broker.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// assembly-ops-procedures.adoc

[id='enable-protocol-trace-broker-{context}']
= Enabling an AMQP protocol trace for the broker

> For diagnostic purposes, it is possible to enable an AMQP protocol trace for a broker.   This can be helpful to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For diagnostic purposes, you can enable an AMQP protocol trace for a broker.   This is helpful to
```

> to troubleshoot problems sending or receiving messages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
troubleshoot problems with sending or receiving messages.
```

> To enable the protocol trace, configuration is be applied to the  `standardinfaconfig` (for standard

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable the protocol trace, you apply configuration to the `standardinfraconfig` (for standard
```

address spaces) or `brokeredinfraconfig` (for brokered address spaces) that enables the protocol trace for all

> brokers of all the address spaces that use that configuration.  Applying this configuration will cause the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
brokers of all the address spaces that use that configuration. Applying this configuration will cause the
```

brokers to restart.

> WARNING: The protocol trace is verbose.  Enabling it increases the CPU overhead of the broker(s) and may decrease

Reviewer: ```suggestion
WARNING: Enabling the protocol trace increases the CPU overhead of the broker(s) and may decrease
```

messaging performance. It may also increase the disk space requirements associated with any log retention system.

> Therefore it is recommended to enable the protocol trace for as shorter time as possible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Therefore, it is recommended that you enable the protocol trace for as short a time as possible.
```

.Procedure

ifeval::["{cmdcli}" == "oc"]
. Log in as a service operator:
+
[subs="attributes",options="nowrap"]
----
{cmdcli} login -u developer
----

. Change to the project where {ProductName} is installed:
+
[subs="+quotes,attributes",options="nowrap"]
----
{cmdcli} project _{ProductNamespace}_
----
endif::[]

. Determine the `addresspaceplan` name for the address space concerned:
+
[subs="+quotes,attributes",options="nowrap"]
----
{cmdcli} get addressspace -n _namespace_ _addressspacename_ --output 'jsonpath={.spec.plan}{"\n"}'
----

. Determine the `standardinfraconfig` or `brokeredinfraconfig` name for the `addressspaceplan` name:
+
[subs="+quotes,attributes",options="nowrap"]
----
{cmdcli} get addressspaceplan _addressspaceplan_ --output 'jsonpath={.spec.infraConfigRef}{"\n"}'
----

> . Enable the protocol trace for all the brokers of the all the address spaces using that use that `standardinfraconfig`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Enable the protocol trace for all the brokers of all the address spaces using that `standardinfraconfig`
```

or `brokeredinfraconfig`:
+
[options="nowrap",subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
{cmdcli} patch _infraconfigresource_ _infraconfigname_ --type=merge -p '{"spec":{"broker":{"podTemplate":{"spec":{"containers":[{"env":[{"name":"PN_TRACE_FRM","value":"true"}],"name":"broker"}]}}}}}'
----

> . Display the logs for the Pod which will include the protocol trace:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Display the logs for the Pod that will include the protocol trace:
```
